CSS Properties:

1)Box-Model properties:
*)border
*)padding
*)Margin

property syntax:

selector{
     property:value of the property;
	 }
	 
(Single or Multiple properties can be addressed)

Box model properties:

1}Border: Gives border to the Element

syntax: div{
         border:1px solid blue;
         }

Here div is selector
     border is property
	 1px is width of the border
	 solid is border style tape
	 red is border color
	 : is seperator
	 ; is terminator
	 
sub properties:	 

1)border-width
2)border-style
3)border-color
		 
border-width - border-width property sets the width of an element's four borders.
This prroperty can have from one to four values

short hand property of border-width:

border styles is under direction Top,Right,Bottom,Left which is clockwise

border:10px;
if there is one width given then all directions will be under same width

border:10px 20px;
in this case first width can be taken to Top and bottom and second one to left and right

border:10px 30px 15px;
in this case first width to be taken to top
second to right and left
third to bottom

border:10px 20px 15px 30px;
in this case it will take as clockwise i.e, top right bottom left

border-width can be medium|thin|thick|length|initial|inherit

medium gives medium border
thick gives thick border
thin gives thin border
length allows us to define thickness of border
initial sets this property to its default value
inherit inherits the property from its parent element

border-style: border-style proiperty sets an element's four borders.

border of an element has same color of the content when no color value is specified

Types of border styles:
1)dashed
2)dotted
3)double
4)inset
5)outset
6)groove

border-padding: border-padding generates space around an element's content,inside of any define borders	
syntax: border-padding:length; 

border-radius :border-radius gives smooth borders
border-radius:length;

difference between margin and padding:                                           

Margin: It is the space around an element.Margins are used to move an element up or down on a page as well as left or right.

Margin is completely transparent,and it does not have any background color.It clears the area around the element.Each side of the element has a margin size you can change individually. 

In creating the gap, the margin pushes adjacent elements away.

Padding: It is the space between the element and the related content inside it. 

It determines how elements look and sit within a container. It also shows the container background around the element in it. 

Padding can be affected by background colors as it clears the area around the content. To create the gap, it either grows the element size or shrinks the content inside. By default, the size of the element increases.

  
                                     margin

                                      border

                                      padding

                                      content